Building Angular apps
edit
You can build your Angular CLI application or library with the ng build command. This will compile your TypeScript code to JavaScript, as well as optimize, bundle, and minify the output as appropriate.

ng build only executes the builder for the build target in the default project as specified in angular.json. Angular CLI includes four builders typically used as build targets:

Builder	Purpose
@angular-devkit/build-angular:application	Builds an application with a client-side bundle, a Node server, and build-time prerendered routes with esbuild.
@angular-devkit/build-angular:browser-esbuild	Bundles a client-side application for use in a browser with esbuild. See browser-esbuild documentation for more information.
@angular-devkit/build-angular:browser	Bundles a client-side application for use in a browser with webpack.
@angular-devkit/build-angular:ng-packagr	Builds an Angular library adhering to Angular Package Format.
Applications generated by ng new use @angular-devkit/build-angular:application by default. Libraries generated by ng generate library use @angular-devkit/build-angular:ng-packagr by default.

You can determine which builder is being used for a particular project by looking up the build target for that project.

{
  "projects": {
    "my-app": {
      "architect": {
        // `ng build` invokes the Architect target named `build`.
        "build": {
          "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application",
          …
        },
        "serve": { … }
        "test": { … }
        …
      }
    }
  }
}
check
This page discusses usage and options of @angular-devkit/build-angular:application.

On this page
Output directory
Configuring size budgets
Configuring CommonJS dependencies
Configuring browser compatibility
Configuring Tailwind

arrow_upward_alt
Back to the top
Output directory
The result of this build process is output to a directory (dist/${PROJECT_NAME} by default).

Configuring size budgets
As applications grow in functionality, they also grow in size. The CLI lets you set size thresholds in your configuration to ensure that parts of your application stay within size boundaries that you define.

Define your size boundaries in the CLI configuration file, angular.json, in a budgets section for each configured environment.

{
  …
  "configurations": {
    "production": {
      …
      "budgets": [
        {
          "type": "initial",
          "maximumWarning": "250kb",
          "maximumError": "500kb"
        },
      ]
    }
  }
}
check
You can specify size budgets for the entire app, and for particular parts. Each budget entry configures a budget of a given type. Specify size values in the following formats:

Size value	Details
123 or 123b	Size in bytes.
123kb	Size in kilobytes.
123mb	Size in megabytes.
12%	Percentage of size relative to baseline. (Not valid for baseline values.)
When you configure a budget, the builder warns or reports an error when a given part of the application reaches or exceeds a boundary size that you set.

Each budget entry is a JSON object with the following properties:

Property	Value
type	The type of budget. One of:
Value	Details
bundle	The size of a specific bundle.
initial	The size of JavaScript and CSS needed for bootstrapping the application. Defaults to warning at 500kb and erroring at 1mb.
allScript	The size of all scripts.
all	The size of the entire application.
anyComponentStyle	This size of any one component stylesheet. Defaults to warning at 2kb and erroring at 4kb.
anyScript	The size of any one script.
any	The size of any file.
name	The name of the bundle (for type=bundle).
baseline	The baseline size for comparison.
maximumWarning	The maximum threshold for warning relative to the baseline.
maximumError	The maximum threshold for error relative to the baseline.
minimumWarning	The minimum threshold for warning relative to the baseline.
minimumError	The minimum threshold for error relative to the baseline.
warning	The threshold for warning relative to the baseline (min & max).
error	The threshold for error relative to the baseline (min & max).
Configuring CommonJS dependencies
Always prefer native ECMAScript modules (ESM) throughout your application and its dependencies. ESM is a fully specified web standard and JavaScript language feature with strong static analysis support. This makes bundle optimizations more powerful than other module formats.

Angular CLI also supports importing CommonJS dependencies into your project and will bundle these dependencies automatically. However, CommonJS modules can prevent bundlers and minifiers from optimizing those modules effectively, which results in larger bundle sizes. For more information, see How CommonJS is making your bundles larger.

Angular CLI outputs warnings if it detects that your browser application depends on CommonJS modules. When you encounter a CommonJS dependency, consider asking the maintainer to support ECMAScript modules, contributing that support yourself, or using an alternative dependency which meets your needs. If the best option is to use a CommonJS dependency, you can disable these warnings by adding the CommonJS module name to allowedCommonJsDependencies option in the build options located in angular.json.

"build": {
  "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:browser",
  "options": {
     "allowedCommonJsDependencies": [
        "lodash"
     ]
     …
   }
   …
},
check
Configuring browser compatibility
The Angular CLI uses Browserslist to ensure compatibility with different browser versions. Depending on supported browsers, Angular will automatically transform certain JavaScript and CSS features to ensure the built application does not use a feature which has not been implemented by a supported browser. However, the Angular CLI will not automatically add polyfills to supplement missing Web APIs. Use the polyfills option in angular.json to add polyfills.

By default, the Angular CLI uses a browserslist configuration which matches browsers supported by Angular for the current major version.

To override the internal configuration, run ng generate config browserslist, which generates a .browserslistrc configuration file in the project directory matching Angular's supported browsers.

See the browserslist repository for more examples of how to target specific browsers and versions. Avoid expanding this list to more browsers. Even if your application code more broadly compatible, Angular itself might not be. You should only ever reduce the set of browsers or versions in this list.

HELPFUL: Use browsersl.ist to display compatible browsers for a browserslist query.